# Type hints cheat sheet

Mypy can deduce type basing on assigment `x = 1` == `x : int = 1`

Collections :
x:list[int] = [1,2]
x:list[int | str] == x : list [ Union[int, str] ] 
x:set[int] = {6,7} - to declare empty set, we need to explicit type x:set[int] = {}
or it will be treat as dict.

Mappings - dict like objects with `__get_item__` that we will not mutable :
x : dict [str, int]
MutableMAppings - dict like objects with `__set_item__`
Sequence - iterable with len and `__get_item__`
Iterable - generic type for anything usable with `for` loop
Tuples :
x : tuple [int, str, float] = (1,"", 1.0)
Tuple(variable):
x : tuple[int,...] = (1,2,3)
IO[str] | IO[bytes] - for functions that accept or returns objects from `open()` call
ClassVar - annotation that is used to declare a class variable.

Python 3.8 and earlier types imported from typing has capitalized first letter.

Optional type is for value that can have `None` type, for example Optional[int] == Union[int, None] == [int | None]

`yield` it just a function that returns an iterator.

x : Callable[[int, float], float] = f
def f(x:int , y:float) -> float

Sign `/` in function marks variables that can be only assignment positional

def foo(a, /, b, * c)

a - positional only,
b - positional or keyword,
c - keyword only.

reveal_type() - function will print error message with type

When using `# type: ignore # COMMENT` it is good practice to write comment regarding why.

TYPE_CHECKING - use it if you want to have a code check by mypy, but not used on runtime. 

For forward reference use `from __future__ import annotations` or close type in ` ' ' `

Decorators can be expressed via generics:

```
F = TypeVar('F', bound = Callable [..., Any])
def bare_decorator(func:F)->F:
	...
def decorator_args(url:str) -> Callable([F], F)
```

Summary:

This chapter describes usage of types in general. It explains usage of reveal_type function, how to use type: ignore comment, and future reference

Questions:

<details>
<summary>if type is needed during assigment?</summary>
No, it is not. Mypy will deduce it.
</details>
<details>
<summary>Is there a situation when we need to explicit add type?</summary>
Yes, when we assign empty collection or None.
</details>
<details>
<summary>What does mark / in function definition?</summary>
This mark points last positional variables only.
</details>
<details>
<summary>What does mutable* means as type prefix?</summary>
It means that type can be mutable.
</details>
<details>
<summary>What is the difference between Iterable and Sequence?</summary>
Main difference between is that Iterable is good for loops, and Sequence should have len and `__getitem__`.
</details>
<details>
<summary>What is `__future__ annotations`?</summary>
It allows to use forward reference.
</details>
<details>
<summary>What is the purpose of apostrophes ''?</summary>
Same as __future__ annotations.
</details>
<details>
<summary>What is `reveal_type`?</summary>
It prints type of variable as an error message.
</details>
<details>
<summary>How can we avoid type checking?</summary>
We can do that by adding as comment # type: ignore # COMMENT.
</details>
<details>
<summary>What is ClassVar?</summary>
It is used to declare class variables.
</details>

#mypy #types #type_checking #types #mappings #mutual